《英语学科知识与教学能力》（初级中学）
一、考试目标
1．英语学科知识与能力
具有扎实的英语语言基础知识和语言能力；具备从事初中英语教学所需要的英语语言能力；能理解有关英语国家的语言、历史和文化等相关知识。
2．英语学科教学知识与能力
掌握外语教学基本理论、英语教学专业知识与国家英语课程标准内容等学科教学知识，并能用以指导初中英语教学。
3．英语学科教学设计能力
能够根据英语学科特点，针对初中学生的认知特点、语言水平和学习需要选择并设计合理的教学内容，形成完整合理的教学方案。
4．英语学科教学实施能力
理解初中英语课堂教学实施的基本原则和方法，具备实施语言课堂教学的基本能力；能够根据教学设计，结合教学实际情况，采用恰当的教学手段，引导学生进行有效学习。
5．英语学科教学评价知识与能力
了解初中英语课堂教学评价的基本知识和方法，能够对学生的语言学习进行恰当的评价；了解教学反思的基本方法和策略，能够对自己的课堂教学实践进行反思，提出改进的思路。
二、考试模块内容与要求
（一）语言知识与能力
1．掌握英语语言的基础知识，了解语言研究中与英语教学相关的基本概念和知识，并能在课堂教学中加以运用。
2．具有良好的英语语言运用能力，包括用英语进行书面表达、获取教学资源和信息、表达思想情感和与学生良好沟通的能力；能够筛选并改编适合初中学生英语水平的语言材料。
3．能够在语篇中理解英语国家的语言、历史和文学等相关的社会文化知识。
（二）语言教学知识与能力
1．了解外语教学基本理论，理解语言观、语言学习观、语言教学观等对初中英语教学的指导作用。
2．理解《义务教育英语课程标准（2011年版）》的目标内容（语言技能、语言知识、情感态度、学习策略和文化意识），以及课程标准的其他相关知识，并能在教学设计与实施中运用。
3．掌握英语语言知识（语音、词汇、语法、语篇等）的教学基本原则、讲解和练习方法。
4．掌握英语语言技能（听、说、读、写）的教学原则和训练方法。
5．能结合中外社会文化语境，设计并实施英语知识和技能的教学与训练。
（三）教学设计
1．了解初中学生的认知特点、已有的英语知识、语言能力和学习需求，能够说明教学内容与学生已学知识之间的联系。
2．理解课程标准的目标要求，能够根据学生的特点选择恰当的教学内容。
3．能够根据教学内容和学生特点设定合理、明确与具体的教学目标。
4．能够根据教学目标创设相关的教学情景，设计有效的教学活动，安排合理的教学过程，筛选适当的辅助教学材料。
5．能够根据教学内容和教学过程，设计有效的学习评估活动。
（四）教学实施与评价
1．掌握英语课堂教学的基本步骤与方法，能够创设教学情景，激发学习动机，引导学生参与语言学习活动。
2．掌握指导学生学习的方法和策略，能依据英语学科和学生的特点，根据教学实际情况，恰当地运用语言讲解、练习、提问、反馈等方法，帮助学生有效学习。
3．掌握课堂管理的基本方法，熟悉课堂活动的常用组织形式，能在教学活动中以学生为中心组织教学，能在课堂教学的不同阶段发挥教师的作用。
4．掌握课堂总结的方法，能适时地对教学内容进行归纳、总结与评价，科学合理地布置作业。
5．掌握基本的现代教育技术，能够针对不同的教学内容与教学目标，整合多种资源，选择恰当的辅助教学手段进行有效教学。
6．了解形成性评价和终结性评价的知识与方法，并在初中英语教学中合理运用。
7．了解教学案例评析的基本方法，能够对教学案例进行评价。
8．了解教学反思的基本方法和策略，能够对自己的教学过程进行反思并提出改进思路。
三、试卷结构
模  块
比  例
题  型
语言知识与能力
27%
单项选择题
语言教学知识与能力
27%
单项选择题
简  答  题
教学设计
27%
教学设计题
教学实施与评价
19%
教学情境分析题
合  计
100%
单 项 选 择 题 ： 约40%非 选  择  题 ： 约60%
四、题型示例
I．语言知识与能力
1．单项选择题（语言知识）
（1）It was very ________ of him to wait for us.
A．considerable	B．considering
C．considerate	D．considered
（2）________ from the top of the hill, the town looks beautiful.
A．Seeing	B．Having seen
C．Seen	D．To see
2．单项选择题（阅读理解）
Every year hundreds of thousands of visitors to New York City go to see the United Nations Headquarters in midtown Manhattan. The 18-acre site includes four buildings – the Secretariat, the General Assembly, the Conference building, and the Dag Hammarskjold Library. The United Nations (UN) currently has 192 members, and the flags of those nations line the plaza in front of the General Assembly Hall and Secretariat. The row of flags, displayed in English alphabetical order, from Afghanistan to Zimbabwe, stretches from 48th Street to 42nd Street.
The decision to locate United Nations Headquarters in the United States was made in 1946 by the UN General Assembly, then meeting in London. Several U.S. locations were considered, but a donation of 8.5 million dollars from philanthropist John D. Rockefeller, Jr. secured the purchase of land at the present site. And the City of New York provided a gift of additional land. The UN complex was designed by an international team of prominent architects. American Wallace K. Harrison was named chief architect, and ten other countries each nominated an architect to the Board of Design Consultants. The 11 architects began the project in early 1947. The U.S. government provided an interest-free loan to the United Nations for the cost of construction, which began in 1949.
The Secretariat Building, which houses the UN administrative offices, was completed in 1950, and United Nations Headquarters officially opened in 1951. The Library was dedicated in 1961. Over the years, changes have been made inside the buildings to accommodate the expanded membership of the United Nations. Today the General Assembly Hall, the largest conference room, seats more than 1,800 people.
The UN Headquarters site is international territory owned by the member nations. It has its own security force, fire department, and postal service. The postal service issues stamps that can only be mailed from the Headquarters; tourists often mail postcards bearing these stamps.
Taking a guided tour is the only way for visitors to see the inside of the UN Headquarters. Tours are led by professional guides representing all the member nations and are conducted in many different languages. Visitors taking a tour see exhibits, various council chambers, and the General Assembly Hall. If their timing is good, they might even see a council meeting in session.
The United Nations Headquarters displays many beautiful and meaningful works of art created specially for its halls and chambers. Sculptures and statues donated by member nations adorn the grounds of the complex. One sculpture, the Japanese Peace Bell, was made from the metal of coins collected from 60 different countries. Japan presented the bell to the United Nations in 1954, and it is rung every year on September 21, the International Day of Peace.
The Peace Bell and other sculptures, as well as paintings and murals inside the buildings, create an impression of grandeur and dignity, reflecting the importance of the work being done at the United Nations.
（1）If you want to see the flag of the People’s Republic of China in front of the UN headquarters, you would most probably find it ________.
A．near the 48th street
B．near the 42nd street
C．in the middle between 48th and 42nd streets
D．in the third position from the flag of Afghanistan
（2）The UN was most likely formed ________.
A．before 1946	B．after 1946
C．in 1950	D．in 1947
（3）As a response to the increase in the UN membership, ________ to meet the needs over the years.
A．more buildings have been built
B．internal changes have been made
C．old buildings have been enlarged
D．more new land has been purchased
（4）Which of the following statements about the tour guide is true?
A．A tour guide may show his pride of his home country before visitors.
B．Each member country sends its tour guide to work in the UN Headquarters.
C．Each tour guide must be able to speak the languages of the member countries.
D．A tour guide should not just feel proud of his own home country before visitors.
（5）This article is most likely written for ________.
A．general newspapers
B．magazines on architectural art
C．books on the international affairs
D．encyclopedic information brochure for students
II．语言教学知识与能力
1．单项选择题
Which of the following activities does not belong to mechanical practice?
A．Transformation.	B．Sentence making.
C．Substitution.	D．Making up a story.
2．简答题（中文作答）
（1）blackboard这个词由哪两个部分组成？该词的重音位置在哪里？请描述相关的语音规律。
（2）阅读教学通常可以分为哪几个阶段？举例说明每个阶段的主要作用。
III．教学设计
教学设计题：根据所提供的信息和语言素材进行教学设计，本题用英文作答。
设计任务：阅读以下信息和语言素材。假设你将利用此语言素材提高学生的口语能力，请根据学生情况设计针对此素材的教学目标，以及实现该目标的课堂活动。
学生概况：本班为中等城市普通学校初中二年级的学生，班级人数为40人。多数学生已具备初步的英语语言能力。学生能够积极参与课堂活动，合作意识较强。
教学时间：45分钟。
教学设计需包括：
教学目标；
教学步骤及设计意图；
教学活动方式、具体内容及设计意图；
教学时间规划；
学习评价。
语言素材：(Tapescript)
Mary: 	Can you come to my party, Ed?
Ed:   	Yes, I can. Thanks! How can I get to your house?
Mary: 	That’s easy. First you take the No. 52 Bus to Green Park. That’s about half an hour.
Ed: 	Okay. And when I get to Green Park …?
Mary: 	… Then you take the subway to Tangs Mall. That takes about ten minutes.
Ed: 	Okay. First the bus and then the subway to Tangs Mall.
Mary: 	Yeah, then you walk up North Street to No. 15. It’s about five minutes’ walk.
Ed: 	Okay, thanks. That sounds easy.
IV．教学实施与评价
教学情景分析题：根据题目要求进行教学分析，本题用中文作答。
以下片段选自某课堂实录（片段中T指教师，S指学生）。请分析该教学片段并回答下列问题：
（1）学生在对话中的语言错误是什么？
（2）教师采用什么方式来纠正学生的错误？效果如何？
（3）教师还可以采用哪些方式纠错？请举例说明。
教学片段：
T: What did your mum do yesterday, Wang Lin?
S: My mum buyed the dress for me.
T: Oh, that is nice, your mum bought it for you, did she?
S: Yes.
T: Where did she buy it?
S: She buyed it in town.
T: Oh, she bought it in town for you. Well, it is very nice.
