[[PDF_PAGE 150 / PRINTED_PAGE 145]]
样 卷
1.全国大学英语四级考试 (笔试)样卷
Part I Writing (30 minutes)
Directions: For this part, you are allowed 30 minutes to write an essay based on the
picture below. You should start your essay with a brief description of the picture and
comment on the kid's understanding of going to school. You should write at least 120
words but no more than 180 words. Write your essay on Answer Sheet 1.
Part II Listening Comprehension (25 minutes)
Section A
Directions: In this section, you will hear three news reports. At the end of each news
report, you will hear two or three questions. Both the news report and the questions

[[PDF_PAGE 151 / PRINTED_PAGE 146]]
will be spoken only once. After you hear a question, you must choose the best answer
from the four choices marked A), B), C) and D). Then mark the corresponding letter
on Answer Sheet 1 with a single line through the centre.
Questions 1 and 2 are based on the news report you have just heard.
1. A) Christmas-time attacks made by Somali rebels.
B) An explosion at a bus station in central Nairobi.
C) The killing of more than 70 Ugandans in Kampala.
D) Blasts set off by a Somali group in Uganda's capital.
2. A) On Christmas Eve. C) During a security check.
B) Just before midnight. D) In the small hours of the morning.
Questions 3 and 4 are based on the news report you have just heard.
3. A) It is likely to close many of its stores.
B) It is known for the quality of its goods.
C) It remains competitive in the recession.
D) It will expand its online retail business.
4. A) Expand its business beyond groceries.
B) Fire 25,000 of its current employees.
C) Cut its DVD publishing business.
D) Sell the business for one pound.
Questions 5 to 7 are based on the news report you have just heard.
5. A) All taxis began to use meters.
B) All taxis got air conditioning.
C) Advertisements were allowed on taxis.
D) Old taxis were replaced with new cabs.
6. A) A low interest loan scheme. C) Taxi passengers' complaints.
B) Environmentalists' protests. D) Permission for car advertising.
7. A) There are no more irregular practices.
B) All new cabs provide air-conditioning.
C) New cabs are all equipped with meters.
D) New legislation protects consumer rights.

[[PDF_PAGE 152 / PRINTED_PAGE 147]]
Section B
Directions: In this section, you will hear two long conversations. At the end of each
conversation, you will hear four questions. Both the conversation and the questions
will be spoken only once. After you hear a question, you must choose the best answer
from the four choices marked A), B), C) and D). Then mark the corresponding letter
on Answer Sheet 1 with a single line through the centre.
Questions 8 to 11 are based on the conversation you have just heard.
8. A) It has a partnership with LCP. C) It specializes in safety from leaks.
B) It is headquartered in London. D) It has a chemical processing plant.
9. A) He is a chemist. C) He is a safety inspector.
B) He is a salesman. D) He is Mr. Grand's friend.
10. A) The public relations officer. C) Director of the safety department.
B) Mr. Grand's personal assistant. D) Head of the personnel department.
11. A) Wait for Mr. Grand to call back.
B) Leave a message for Mr. Grand.
C) Provide details of their products and services.
D) Send a comprehensive description of their work.
Questions 12 to 15 are based on the conversation you have just heard.
12. A) Teacher. B) Journalist. C) Editor. D) Typist.
13. A) Some newly discovered scenic spot.
B) Big changes in the Amazon valley.
C) A new railway under construction.
D) The beautiful Amazon rainforests.
14. A) In news weeklies. C) In newspapers' Sunday editions.
B) In a local evening paper. D) In overseas editions of U.S. magazines.
15. A) To become a professional writer. C) To get her life story published soon.
B) To be employed by a newspaper. D) To sell her articles to a news service.
Section C
Directions: In this section, you will hear three passages. At the end of each passage,
you will hear three or four questions. Both the passage and the questions will be spoken

[[PDF_PAGE 153 / PRINTED_PAGE 148]]
only once. After you hear a question, you must choose the best answer from the four
choices marked A), B), C) and D). Then mark the corresponding letter on Answer
Sheet 1 with a single line through the centre.
Questions 16 to 18 are based on the passage you have just heard.
16. A) She is both a popular and a highly respected author.
B) She is the first writer to focus on the fate of slaves.
C) She is the most loved African novelist of all times.
D) She is the most influential author since the 1930's.
17. A) The Book Critics Circle Award. C) The Pulitzer Prize for fiction.
B) The Nobel Prize for literature. D) The National Book Award.
18. A) She is a relative of Morrison's. C) She is a skilled storyteller.
B) She is a slave from Africa. D) She is a black woman.
Questions 19 to 21 are based on the passage you have just heard.
19. A) They are very generous in giving gifts.
B) They refuse gifts when doing business.
C) They regard gifts as a token of friendship.
D) They give gifts only on special occasions.
20. A) They enjoy giving gifts to other people.
B) They spend a lot of time choosing gifts.
C) They have to follow many specific rules.
D) They pay attention to the quality of gifts.
21. A) Gift-giving plays an important role in human relationships.
B) We must be aware of cultural differences in giving gifts.
C) We must learn how to give gifts before going abroad.
D) Reading extensively can make one a better gift-giver.
Questions 22 to 25 are based on the passage you have just heard.
22. A) She tenderly looked after her sick mother.
B) She developed a strong interest in finance.
C) She learned to write for financial newspapers.
D) She invested in stocks and shares on Wall Street.
23. A) She inherited a big fortune from her father.

[[PDF_PAGE 154 / PRINTED_PAGE 149]]
B) She sold her restaurant with a substantial profit.
C) She got 7.5 million dollars from her ex-husband.
D) She made a wise investment in real estate.
24. A) She was dishonest in business dealings.
B) She frequently ill-treated her employees.
C) She abused animals including her pet dog.
D) She was extremely mean with her money.
25. A) She carried on her family's tradition.
B) She made huge donations to charities.
C) She built a hospital with her mother's money.
D) She made a big fortune from wise investments.
Part III Reading Comprehension (40 minutes)
Section A
Directions: In this section, there is a passage with ten blanks. You are required to select
one word for each blank from a list of choices given in a word bank following the
passage. Read the passage through carefully before making your choices. Each choice in
the bank is identified by a letter. Please mark the corresponding letter for each item on
Answer Sheet 2 with a single line through the centre. You may not use any of the words
in the bank more than once.
The U.S. Department of Education is making efforts to ensure that all students have
equal access to a quality education. Today it is 26 the launch of the Excellent Educators
for All Initiative. The initiative will help states and school districts support great educators
for the students who need them most.
“All children are 27 to a high-quality education regardless of their race, zip code or
family income. It is 28 important that we provide teachers and principals the support
they need to help students reach their full 29, ”U.S. Secretary of Education Arne
Duncan said. “Despite the excellent work and deep 30 of our nation's teachers and
principals, students in high-poverty, high-minority schools are unfairly treated across our
country. We have to do better. Local leaders and educators will 31 their own creative
solutions, but we must work together to 32 our focus on how to better recruit, support
and 33 effective teachers and principals for all students, especially the kids who need
them most. ”
Today's announcement is another important step forward in improving access to a

[[PDF_PAGE 155 / PRINTED_PAGE 150]]
quality education, a 34 of President Obama's year of action. Later today, Secretary
Duncan will lead a roundtable discussion with principals and school teachers from across the
country about the 35 of working in high-need schools and how to adopt promising
practices for supporting great educators in these schools.
A) announcing I) distributing
B) beneficial J) enhance
C) challenges K) entitled
D) commitment L) potential
E) component M) properly
F) contests N) qualified
G) critically O) retain
H) develop
Section B
Directions: In this section, you are going to read a passage with ten statements attached
to it. Each statement contains information given in one of the paragraphs. Identify the
paragraph from which the information is derived. You may choose a paragraph more
than once. Each paragraph is marked with a letter. Answer the questions by marking
the corresponding letter on Answer Sheet 2.
The Changes Facing Fast Food
A) Fast-food firms have to be a thick-skinned bunch. Health experts regularly criticise
them severely for selling food that makes people fat. Critics even complain that
McDonald's, whose logo symbolises calorie excess, should not have been allowed to
sponsor the World Cup. These are things fast-food firms have learnt to cope with. But not
perhaps for much longer. The burger business faces more pressure from regulators at a
time when it is already adapting strategies in response to shifts in the global economy.
B) Fast food was once thought to be recession-proof. When consumers need to cut
spending, the logic goes, cheap meals like Big Macs and Whoppers become even more
attractive. Such “trading down”proved true for much of the latest recession, when fast-
food companies picked up customers who could no longer afford to eat at casual
restaurants. Traffic was boosted in America, the home of fast food, with discounts and
promotions, such as $ 1 menus and cheap combination meals.
C) As a result, fast-food chains have weathered the recession better than their more
expensive competitors. In 2009 sales at full-service restaurants in America fell by more

[[PDF_PAGE 156 / PRINTED_PAGE 151]]
than 6%, but total sales remained about the same at fast-food chains. In some markets,
such as Japan, France and Britain, total spending on fast food increased. Same-store sales
in America at McDonald's, the world's largest fast-food company, did not decline
throughout the downturn. Panera Bread, an American fast-food chain known for its fresh
ingredients, performed well, too, because it offers higher-quality food at lower prices
than restaurants.
D) But not all fast-food companies have been as fortunate. Many, such as Burger King,
have seen sales fall. In a severe recession, while some people trade down to fast food,
many others eat at home more frequently to save money. David Palmer, an analyst at
UBS, a bank, says smaller fast-food chains in America, such as Jack in the Box and Carl's
Jr., have been hit particularly hard in this downturn because they are competing with the
global giant McDonald's, which increased spending on advertising by more than 7% last
year as others cut back.
E) Some fast-food companies also sacrificed their own profits by trying to give customers
better value. During the recession companies set prices low, hoping that once they had
tempted customers through the door they would be persuaded to order more expensive
items. But in many cases that strategy did not work. Last year Burger King franchisees
(特许 经 营 人) sued (起 诉) the company over its double-cheeseburger promotion,
claiming it was unfair for them to be required to sell these for $ 1 when they cost $ 1.10
to make. In May a judge ruled in favour of Burger King. Nevertheless, the company may
still be cursing its decision to promote cheap choices over more expensive ones because
items on its “value menu”now account for around 20% of all sales, up from 12% last
October.
F) Analysts expect the fast-food industry to grow modestly this year. But the downturn is
making companies rethink their strategies. Many are now introducing higher-priced items
to entice (引诱) consumers away from $ 1 specials. KFC, a division of Yum! Brands,
which also owns Taco Bell and Pizza Hut, has launched a chicken sandwich that costs
around $ 5. And in May Burger King introduced barbecue pork ribs at $ 7 for eight.
G) Companies are also trying to get customers to buy new and more items, including
drinks. McDonald's started selling better coffee as a challenge to Starbucks. Its “McCafé”
line now accounts for an estimated 6% of sales in America. Starbucks has sold rights to its
Seattle's Best coffee brand to Burger King, which will start selling it later this year.
H) As fast-food companies shift from “super size”to “more buys”, they need to keep
customer traffic high throughout the day. Many see breakfast as a big opportunity, and
not just for fatty food. McDonald's will start selling porridge (粥) in America next year.
Breakfast has the potential to be very profitable, says Sara Senatore of Bernstein, a
research firm, because the margins can be high. Fast-food companies are also adding
midday and late-night snacks, such as blended drinks and wraps. The idea is that by
having a greater range of things on the menu, “we can sell to consumers products they

[[PDF_PAGE 157 / PRINTED_PAGE 152]]
want all day, ”says Rick Carucci, the chief financial officer of Yum! Brands.
I) But what about those growing waistlines? So far, fast-food firms have cleverly avoided
government regulation. By providing healthy options, like salads and low-calorie
sandwiches, they have at least given the impression of doing something about helping to
fight obesity. These offerings are not necessarily loss leaders, as they broaden the appeal
of outlets to groups of diners that include some people who don't want to eat a burger. But
customers cannot be forced to order salads instead of fries.
J) In the future, simply offering a healthy option may not be good enough. “Every
packaged-food and restaurant company I know is concerned about regulation right now, ”
says Mr. Palmer of UBS. America's health reform bill, which Congress passed this year,
requires restaurant chains with 20 or more outlets to put the calorie content of items they
serve on the menu. A study by the National Bureau of Economic Research, which tracked
the effects on Starbucks of a similar calorie-posting law in New York City in 2007, found
that the average calorie count per transaction fell 6% and revenue increased 3% at
Starbucks stores where a Dunkin Donuts outlet was nearby—a sign, it is said, that menu
labelling could favour chains that have more healthy offerings.
K) In order to avoid other legislation in America and elsewhere, fast-food companies will
have to continue innovating. Walt Riker of McDonald's claims the change it has made in its
menu means it offers more healthy items than it did a few years ago. “We probably sell
more vegetables, more milk, more salads, more apples than any restaurant business in
the world, ”he says. But the recent proposal by a county in California to ban McDonald's
from including toys in its high-calorie “Happy Meals”, because legislators believe it
attracts children to unhealthy food, suggests there is a lot more left to do.
36. Some people propose laws be made to stop McDonald's from attaching toys to its food
specials for children.
37. Fast-food firms may not be able to cope with pressures from food regulation in the near
future.
38. Burger King will start to sell Seattle's Best coffee to increase sales.
39. Some fast-food firms provide healthy food to give the impression they are helping to
tackle the obesity problem.
40. During the recession, many customers turned to fast food to save money.
41. Many people eat out less often to save money in times of recession.

[[PDF_PAGE 158 / PRINTED_PAGE 153]]
42. During the recession, Burger King's promotional strategy of offering low-priced items
often proved ineffective.
43. Fast-food restaurants can make a lot of money by selling breakfast.
44. Many fast-food companies now expect to increase their revenue by introducing higher-
priced items.
45. A newly-passed law requires big fast-food chains specify the calorie count of what they
serve on the menu.
Section C
Directions: There are 2 passages in this section. Each passage is followed by some
questions or unfinished statements. For each of them there are four choices marked A),
B), C) and D). You should decide on the best choice and mark the corresponding letter
on Answer Sheet 2 with a single line through the centre.
Passage One
Questions 46 to 50 are based on the following passage.
If you think a high-factor sunscreen (防晒霜) keeps you safe from harmful rays, you
may be wrong. Research in this week's Nature shows that while factor 50 reduces the
number of melanomas (黑 瘤) and delays their occurrence, it can't prevent them.
Melanomas are the most aggressive skin cancers. You have a higher risk if you have red or
blond hair, fair skin, blue or green eyes, or sunburn easily, or if a close relative has had
one. Melanomas are more common if you have periodic intense exposure to the sun. Other
skin cancers are increasingly likely with long-term exposure.
There is continuing debate as to how effective sunscreen is in reducing melanomas —
the evidence is weaker than it is for preventing other types of skin cancer. A 2011 Australian
study of 1,621 people found that people randomly selected to apply sunscreen daily had half
the rate of melanomas of people who used cream as needed. A second study, comparing 1,
167 people with melanomas to 1,101 who didn't have the cancer, found that using sunscreen
routinely, alongside other protection such as hats, long sleeves or staying in the shade, did
give some protection. This study said other forms of sun protection — not sunscreen —
seemed most beneficial. The study relied on people remembering what they had done over
each decade of their lives, so it's not entirely reliable. But it seems reasonable to think
sunscreen gives people a false sense of security in the sun.
Many people also don't use sunscreen properly — applying insufficient amounts, failing
to reapply after a couple of hours and staying in the sun too long. It is sunburn that is most
worrying — recent research shows five episodes of sunburn in the teenage years increases

[[PDF_PAGE 159 / PRINTED_PAGE 154]]
the risk of all skin cancers.
The good news is that a combination of sunscreen and covering up can reduce melanoma
rates, as shown by Australian figures from their slip-slop-slap campaign. So if there is a heat
wave this summer, it would be best for us, too, to slip on a shirt, slop on (抹上) sunscreen
and slap on a hat.
46. What is people's common expectation of a high-factor sunscreen?
A) It will delay the occurrence of skin cancer.
B) It will protect them from sunburn.
C) It will keep their skin smooth and fair.
D) It will protect people of any skin color.
47. What does the research in Nature say about a high-factor sunscreen?
A) It is ineffective in preventing melanomas.
B) It is ineffective in case of intense sunlight.
C) It is ineffective with long-term exposure.
D) It is ineffective for people with fair skin.
48. What do we learn from the 2011 Australian study of 1,621 people?
A) Sunscreen should be applied alongside other protection measures.
B) High-risk people benefit the most from the application of sunscreen.
C) Irregular application of sunscreen does women more harm than good.
D) Daily application of sunscreen helps reduce the incidence of melanomas.
49. What does the author say about the second Australian study?
A) It misleads people to rely on sunscreen for protection.
B) It helps people to select the most effective sunscreen.
C) It is not based on direct observation of the subjects.
D) It confirms the results of the first Australian study.
50. What does the author suggest to reduce melanoma rates?
A) Using both covering up and sunscreen.
B) Staying in the shade whenever possible.
C) Using covering up instead of sunscreen.
D) Applying the right amount of sunscreen.
Passage Two
Questions 51 to 55 are based on the following passage.
Across the rich world, well-educated people increasingly work longer than the less-

[[PDF_PAGE 160 / PRINTED_PAGE 155]]
skilled. Some 65% of American men aged 62-74 with a professional degree are in the
workforce, compared with 32% of men with only a high-school certificate. This gap is part
of a deepening divide between the well-educated well-off and the unskilled poor. Rapid
technological advance has raised the incomes of the highly skilled while squeezing those of
the unskilled. The consequences, for individuals and society, are profound.
The world is facing an astonishing rise in the number of old people, and they will live
longer than ever before. Over the next 20 years the global population of those aged 65 or
more will almost double, from 600 million to 1.1 billion. The experience of the 20th century,
when greater longevity (长寿) translated into more years in retirement rather than more
years at work, has persuaded many observers that this shift will lead to slower economic
growth, while the swelling ranks of pensioners will create government budget problems.
But the notion of a sharp division between the working young and the idle old misses a
new trend, the growing gap between the skilled and the unskilled. Employment rates are
falling among younger unskilled people, whereas older skilled folk are working longer. The
divide is most extreme in America, where well-educated baby-boomers are putting off
retirement while many less-skilled younger people have dropped out of the workforce.
Policy is partly responsible. Many European governments have abandoned policies that
used to encourage people to retire early. Rising life expectancy, combined with the
replacement of generous defined-benefit pension plans with less generous defined-
contribution ones, means that even the better-off must work longer to have a comfortable
retirement. But the changing nature of work also plays a big role. Pay has risen sharply for
the highly educated, and those people continue to reap rich rewards into old age because
these days the educated elderly are more productive than the preceding generation.
Technological change may well reinforce that shift: the skills that complement computers,
from management knowhow to creativity, do not necessarily decline with age.
51. What is happening in the workforce in rich countries?
A) Younger people are replacing the elderly.
B) Well-educated people tend to work longer.
C) Unemployment rates are rising year after year.
D) People with no college degree do not easily find work.
52. What has helped deepen the divide between the well-off and the poor?
A) Longer life expectancies. C) Profound changes in the workforce.
B) A rapid technological advance. D) A growing number of the well-educated.
53. What do many observers predict in view of the experience of the 20th century?
A) Economic growth will slow down.
B) Government budgets will increase.

[[PDF_PAGE 161 / PRINTED_PAGE 156]]
C) More people will try to pursue higher education.
D) There will be more competition in the job market.
54. What is the result of policy changes in European countries?
A) Unskilled workers may choose to retire early.
B) More people have to receive in-service training.
C) Even wealthy people must work longer to live comfortably in retirement.
D) People may be able to enjoy generous defined-benefits from pension plans.
55. What is characteristic of work in the 21st century?
A) Computers will do more complicated work.
B) More will be taken by the educated young.
C) Most jobs to be done will be creative ones.
D) Skills are highly valued regardless of age.
Part IV Translation (30 minutes)
Directions: For this part, you are allowed 30 minutes to translate a passage from
Chinese into English. You should write your answer on Answer Sheet 2.
据报道,今年中国快递服务 (courier services)将递送大约 120 亿件包裹. 这将使中国有
可能超越美国成为世界上最大的快递市场. 大多数包裹里装着网上订购的物品. 中国给数
百万在线零售商以极具竞争力的价格销售商品的机会. 仅在 11 月 11 日,中国消费者就从
国内最大的购物平台购买了价值 90 亿美元的商品. 中国有不少这样的特殊购物日. 因此,
快递业在中国扩展就不足为奇了.

[[PDF_PAGE 162 / PRINTED_PAGE 157]]
【听力文字稿】
Section A
Directions: In this section, you will hear three news reports. At the end of each news
report, you will hear two or three questions. Both the news report and the questions
will be spoken only once. After you hear a question, you must choose the best answer
from the four choices marked A), B), C) and D). Then mark the corresponding letter
on Answer Sheet 1 with a single line through the centre.
News Report One
Kenyan police say one person was killed and 26 injured in an explosion at a bus station
in central Nairobi. The blast hit a bus about to set off for the Ugandan capital Kampala. Last
July, the Somali group al-Shabab said it was behind the blasts in the Ugandan capital which
killed more than 70 people. Will Ross reports from the Kenyan capital.
The explosion happened beside a bus which was about to set off for an overnight journey
from Nairobi to the Ugandan capital Kampala. Some eyewitnesses report that a bag was about
to be loaded on board, but it exploded during a security check. Windows of the red bus were
left smashed, and blood could be seen on the ground beside the vehicle. Just hours earlier,
Uganda's police chief had warned of possible Christmas-time attacks by Somali rebels.
Questions 1 and 2 are based on the news report you have just heard.
1. What is the news report mainly about?
2. When did the incident occur?
News Report Two
Woolworths is one of the best known names on the British High Street. It's been in
business for nearly a century. Many of its 800 stores are likely to close following the
company's decision to call in administrators after an attempt to sell the business for a token
£1 failed.
The company has huge debts. The immediate cause for the collapse has been Britain's
slide toward recession, which has cut into consumer spending. However, the business had
been in trouble for years.
Known for low-priced general goods, Woolworths has struggled in the face of
competition from supermarkets expanding beyond groceries and a new generation of internet
retailers.
Many of the store group's 25,000 employees are likely to lose their jobs. Some
profitable areas such as the DVD publishing business will survive.

[[PDF_PAGE 163 / PRINTED_PAGE 158]]
Questions 3 and 4 are based on the news report you have just heard.
3. What do we learn about Woolworths from the news report?
4. What did Woolworths attempt to do recently?
News Report Three
Cairo is known not only for its overcrowded roads, irregular driving practices and shaky
old vehicles, but also for its air pollution. In recent months, though, environmental studies
indicate there have been signs of improvement. That's due in part to the removal of many of
the capital's old-fashioned black and white taxis. Most of these dated back to the 1960s and
70s and were in a poor state of repair.
After new legislation demanded their removal from the roads, a low interest loan
scheme was set up with three Egyptian banks so drivers could buy new cars. The
government pays about $ 900 for old ones to be discarded and advertising on the new
vehicles helps cover repayments.
The idea has proved popular with customers — they can now travel in air-conditioned
comfort and because the new cabs are metered, they don't have to argue over fares. Banks
and car manufacturers are glad for the extra business in tough economic times. As for the
taxi drivers, most are delighted to be behind the wheel of new cars, although there have
been a few complaints about switching from black and white to a plain white colour.
Questions 5 to 7 are based on the news report you have just heard.
5. What change took place in Cairo recently?
6. What helped bring about the change?
7. Why do customers no longer argue with new cab drivers?
Section B
Directions: In this section, you will hear two long conversations. At the end of each
conversation, you will hear four questions. Both the conversation and the questions
will be spoken only once. After you hear a question, you must choose the best answer
from the four choices marked A), B), C) and D). Then mark the corresponding letter
on Answer Sheet 1 with a single line through the centre.
Conversation One
W: Morning, this is TGC.
M: Good morning. Walter Barry here, calling from London. Could I speak to Mr. Grand,
please?
W: Who's calling, please?
M: Walter Barry, from London.
W: What is it about, please?

[[PDF_PAGE 164 / PRINTED_PAGE 159]]
M: Well, I understand that your company has a chemical processing plant. My own
company, LCP, Liquid Control Products, is a leader in safety from leaks in the field of
chemical processing. I would like to speak to Mr. Grand to discuss ways in which we
could help TGC protect itself from such problems and save money at the same time.
W: Yes, I see. Well, Mr. Grand is not available at the moment.
M: Can you tell me when I could reach him?
W: He's very busy for the next few days — then he'll be away in New York. So it's difficult
to give you a time.
M: Could I speak to someone else, perhaps?
W: Who in particular?
M: A colleague for example?
W: You're speaking to his personal assistant. I can deal with calls for Mr. Grand.
M: Yes, well, could I ring him tomorrow?
W: No, I'm sorry he won't be free tomorrow. Listen, let me suggest something. You send
us details of your products and services, together with references from other companies
and then we'll contact you.
M: Yes, that's very kind of you. I have your address.
W: Very good, Mr....
M: Barry. Walter Barry from LCP in London.
W: Right, Mr. Barry. We look forward to hearing from you.
M: Thank you. Goodbye.
W: Bye.
Questions 8 to 11 are based on the conversation you have just heard.
8. What do we learn about the woman's company?
9. What do we learn about the man?
10. What is the woman's position in her company?
11. What does the woman suggest the man do?
Conversation Two
M: You're going to wear out the computer's keyboard!
W: Oh, hi.
M: Do you have any idea what time it is?
W: About ten or ten-thirty?
M: It's nearly midnight.
W: Really? I didn't know it was so late.
M: Don't you have an early class to teach tomorrow morning?
W: Yes, at seven o'clock. My commuter class, the students who go to work right after their
lesson.

[[PDF_PAGE 165 / PRINTED_PAGE 160]]
M: Then you ought to go to bed. What are you writing, anyway?
W: An article I hope I can sell.
M: Oh, another of your newspaper pieces? What's this one about?
W: Do you remember the trip I took last month?
M: The one up to the Amazon?
W: Well, that's what I'm writing about—the new highway and the changes it's making in
the Amazon valley.
M: It should be interesting.
W: It is. I guess that's why I forgot all about the time.
M: How many articles have you sold now?
W: About a dozen so far.
M: What kind of newspapers buy them?
W: The papers that carry a lot of foreign news. They usually appear in the big Sunday
editions where they need a lot of background stories to help fill up the space between
the ads.
M: Is there any future in it?
W: I hope so. There's a chance I may sell this article to a news service.
M: Then your story would be published in several papers, wouldn't it?
W: That's the idea. And I might even be able to do other stories on a regular basis.
M: That would be great.
Questions 12 to 15 are based on the conversation you have just heard.
12. What is the woman's occupation?
13. What is the woman writing about?
14. Where do the woman's articles usually appear?
15. What does the woman expect?
Section C
Directions: In this section, you will hear three passages. At the end of each passage,
you will hear three or four questions. Both the passage and the questions will be spoken
only once. After you hear a question, you must choose the best answer from the four
choices marked A), B), C) and D). Then mark the corresponding letter on Answer
Sheet 1 with a single line through the centre.
Passage One
In today's class, we'll discuss Toni Morrison's novel Beloved. As I'm sure you all know,
Morrison is both a popular and a highly respected author, and it's not easy to be both. Born
in 1931, Morrison has written some of the most touching and intelligent works on the
African-American experience ever written by anyone, and yet to call her an “African-

[[PDF_PAGE 166 / PRINTED_PAGE 161]]
American writer”doesn't seem to do her justice. In many ways, she's simply an American
writer—and certainly one of our best.
Beloved is a truly remarkable work. It was recommended for nearly every major
literary prize, including the National Book Award and the National Book Critics Circle
Award, and it in fact won the Pulitzer Prize for fiction in 1988. Morrison herself is
distinguished for having won the Nobel Prize for literature in 1993.
What makes Beloved unique is the skillful, sure way in which Morrison blends intensely
personal storytelling and American history, racial themes and gender themes, the
experience of Blacks with the experience of all people everywhere, the down-to-earth reality
of slavery with a sense of mysterious spirituality.
We'll be paying special attention to these themes as we discuss this work. I'm
particularly interested in your views on the relative importance of race and gender in this
book. Is it more important that Sethe, the main character, is black or that she's a woman?
Which contributes more to her being? What does Morrison tell us about both?
Questions 16 to 18 are based on the passage you have just heard.
16. What do we learn about Toni Morrison?
17. What honor did Toni Morrison receive in 1993?
18. What does the speaker tell us about Sethe, the main character in Morrison's novel
Beloved?
Passage Two
The topic of my talk today is gift-giving. Everybody likes to receive gifts, right? So you
may think that gift-giving is a universal custom. But actually, the rules of gift-giving vary
quite a lot, and not knowing them can result in great embarrassment. In North America, the
rules are fairly simple. If you're invited to someone's home for dinner, bring wine or flowers
or a small item from your country. Among friends, family, and business associates, we
generally don't give gifts on other occasions except on someone's birthday and Christmas.
The Japanese, on the other hand, give gifts quite frequently, often to thank someone for
their kindness. The tradition of gift-giving in Japan is very ancient. There are many detailed
rules for everything from the color of the wrapping paper to the time of the gift
presentation. And while Europeans don't generally exchange business gifts, they do follow
some formal customs when visiting homes, such as bringing flowers. The type and color of
flowers, however, can carry special meaning.
Today we have seen some broad differences in gift-giving. I could go on with additional
examples. But let's not miss the main point here: If we are not aware of and sensitive to
cultural differences, the possibilities for miscommunication and conflict are enormous.
Whether we learn about these differences by reading a book or by living abroad, our goal
must be to respect differences among people in order to get along successfully with our

[[PDF_PAGE 167 / PRINTED_PAGE 162]]
global neighbors.
Questions 19 to 21 are based on the passage you have just heard.
19. What does the speaker say about gift-giving of North Americans?
20. What do we learn about the Japanese concerning gift-giving?
21. What point does the speaker make at the end of the talk?
Passage Three
Hetty Green was a very spoilt, only child. She was born in Massachusetts, USA, in
1835. Her father was a millionaire businessman. Her mother was often ill, and so from the
age of two her father took her with him to work and taught her about stocks and shares. At
the age of six she started reading the daily financial newspapers and opened her own bank
account.
Her father died when she was 21 and she inherited $ 7.5 million. She went to New York
and invested on Wall Street. Hetty saved every penny, eating in the cheapest restaurants for
15 cents. She became one of the richest and most hated women in the world. At 33 she
married Edward Green, a multi-millionaire, and had two children, Ned and Sylvia.
Hetty's meanness was well known. She always argued about prices in shops. She walked
to the local grocery store to buy broken biscuits which were much cheaper, and to get a free
bone for her much loved dog. Once she lost a two-cent stamp and spent the night looking for
it. She never bought clothes and always wore the same long, ragged black skirt. Worst of
all, when her son Ned fell and injured his knee, she refused to pay for a doctor and spent
hours looking for free medical help. In the end Ned lost his leg.
When she died in 1916 she left her children $ 100 million. Her daughter built a hospital
with her money.
Questions 22 to 25 are based on the passage you have just heard.
22. What do we learn about Hetty Green as a child?
23. How did Hetty Green become rich overnight?
24. Why was Hetty Green much hated?
25. What do we learn about Hetty Green's daughter?

[[PDF_PAGE 168 / PRINTED_PAGE 163]]
【参考答案】
Part II Listening Comprehension
Section A
1. B 2. C 3. A 4. D 5. D
6. A 7. C
Section B
8. D 9. B 10. B 11. C 12. A
13. B 14. C 15. D
Section C
16. A 17. B 18. D 19. D 20. C
21. B 22. B 23. A 24. D 25. C
Part III Reading Comprehension
Section A
26. A 27. K 28. G 29. L 30. D
31. H 32. J 33. O 34. E 35. C
Section B
36. K 37. A 38. G 39. I 40. B
41. D 42. E 43. H 44. F 45. J
Section C
46. B 47. A 48. D 49. C 50. A
51. B 52. B 53. A 54. C 55. D
Part IV Translation
It is reported that Chinese courier services will deliver about 12 billion parcels this year.
This will enable China to overtake the US and become the world's biggest delivery market.
The majority of courier packages contain items ordered online. China gives millions of online
retailers the opportunity to sell goods at highly competitive prices. On 11 November alone,
Chinese consumers bought $ 9 billion worth of products on the country's biggest shopping
platform. China has many special shopping holidays like this. So, it's no surprise the courier
industry is expanding in China.

[[PDF_PAGE 169 / PRINTED_PAGE 164]]
2.全国大学英语四级考试 (口试)样卷
Topic area: Daily Life
Topic: Travel
Hello, welcome to the CET Spoken English Test — Band Four. We wish you both good
luck today. Now let's start by introducing yourselves.
Candidate A, would you please go first? (时间 20 秒)
Thank you. Candidate B, now it's your turn. (时间 20 秒)
Thank you. OK, now that we know each other, let's move on.
Task 1 Read Aloud
In this task, you will read aloud a short passage. You will have 45 seconds to go over the
passage and one minute to read it aloud. Here is the passage.
(屏幕显示以下文字)
Many people would list San Francisco as one of the most delightful cities in the world.
Sitting on the Pacific coast, it gives you a feeling of the sea. The sea breezes wake you up
and make you eat well and sleep well. The city was planned with straight roads, and these
roads cross each other at right angles, making squares as they do in many American cities.
Very often you can find yourself on top of a hill in the city, looking down one of these
straight roads as it rises and falls on its journey through the town. A good way to travel these
roads is by cable car. These are buses that run on rails in the ground up and down the steep
hills.
(考生准备时间 45 秒)
When you hear the beep, please start to read.
(考生 A 和 B 同时回答,时间 1 分钟)
Task 2 Question and Answer
In this task, you will answer two questions. For each question, you will have 20
seconds to respond. When you hear the beep, please start to speak.
(问题文字不显示在屏幕上)
Question 1:
What would many people think of San Francisco according to the passage?
(考生 A 和 B 同时回答,时间 20 秒)

[[PDF_PAGE 170 / PRINTED_PAGE 165]]
Question 2:
Which coastal city in China do you like most? And why?
(考生 A 和 B 同时回答,时间 20 秒)
Task 3 Individual Presentation
In this task, you will talk about the picture displayed on the screen. You will have 45
seconds to prepare and one minute to talk about it. Now here is the picture.
(考生准备时间 45 秒)
When you hear the beep, please start to speak.
(考生 A 和 B 同时回答,时间 1 分钟)
Task 4 Pair Work
In this task, you will talk with your partner about a plan of travel. Suppose you have
three days to go sightseeing together. Talk with each other and make a plan for your trip.
Your plan may include:
— place (s) to visit
— schedule
— means of transportation
You will have one minute to prepare and three minutes to talk. Remember, this is a pair
activity and you need to interact with each other. Your performance will be judged according
to your contribution to the pair work. Now please start to prepare.

[[PDF_PAGE 171 / PRINTED_PAGE 166]]
(屏幕上显示以下文字)
Your plan may include:
— place (s) to visit
— schedule
— means of transportation
(考生准备时间 1 分钟)
When you hear the beep, please start to speak.
(考生 A 和 B 讨论,时间 3 分钟)
Thank you. That is the end of the test.

[[PDF_PAGE 172 / PRINTED_PAGE 167]]
3.全国大学英语六级考试 (笔试)样卷
Part I Writing (30 minutes)
Directions: For this part, you are allowed 30 minutes to write an essay commenting on
the saying “If you cannot do great things, do small things in a great way. ”You can
cite examples to illustrate your point of view. You should write at least 150 words but
no more than 200 words. Write your essay on Answer Sheet 1.
Part II Listening Comprehension (30 minutes)
Section A
Directions: In this section, you will hear two long conversations. At the end of each
conversation, you will hear four questions. Both the conversation and the questions
will be spoken only once. After you hear a question, you must choose the best answer
from the four choices marked A), B), C) and D). Then mark the corresponding letter
on Answer Sheet 1 with a single line through the centre.
Questions 1 to 4 are based on the conversation you have just heard.
1. A) He invented the refrigerator.
B) He patented his first invention.
C) He was admitted to a university.
D) He got a degree in Mathematics.
2. A) He started to work on refrigeration.
B) He became a professor of Mathematics.
C) He fell in love with Natasha Willoughby.
D) He distinguished himself in low temperature physics.
3. A) Discovering the true nature of subatomic particles.
B) Their explanation of the laws of cause and effect.
C) Their work on very high frequency radio waves.
D) Laying the foundations of modern mathematics.
4. A) To have a three-week holiday. C) To patent his inventions.
B) To spend his remaining years. D) To teach at a university.

[[PDF_PAGE 173 / PRINTED_PAGE 168]]
Questions 5 to 8 are based on the conversation you have just heard.
5. A) The injury of some students.
B) A school bus crash on the way.
C) The collapse of a school building.
D) A fire that broke out on a school campus.
6. A) Teaching. C) Having lunch.
B) On vacation. D) Holding a meeting.
7. A) A malfunctioning stove. C) Violation of traffic rules.
B) Cigarettes butts left by workers. D) Negligence in school maintenance.
8. A) Sent a story to the local newspaper.
B) Threw a small Thanksgiving party.
C) Baked some cookies as a present.
D) Wrote a personal letter of thanks.
Section B
Directions: In this section, you will hear two passages. At the end of each passage, you
will hear three or four questions. Both the passage and the questions will be spoken only
once. After you hear a question, you must choose the best answer from the four choices
marked A), B), C) and D). Then mark the corresponding letter on Answer Sheet 1
with a single line through the centre.
Questions 9 to 11 are based on the passage you have just heard.
9. A) It is a trait of a generous character.
B) It is a reflection of self-esteem.
C) It is an indicator of high intelligence.
D) It is a sign of happiness and confidence.
10. A) It was self-defeating. C) It was the essence of comedy.
B) It was aggressive. D) It was something admirable.
11. A) It is a double-edged sword. C) It is a unique gift of human beings.
B) It is a feature of a given culture. D) It is a result of both nature and nurture.
Questions 12 to 15 are based on the passage you have just heard.
12. A) She is a tourist guide. C) She is a domestic servant.
B) She is an interpreter. D) She is from the royal family.

[[PDF_PAGE 174 / PRINTED_PAGE 169]]
13. A) It is situated at the foot of a beautiful mountain.
B) It was used by the family to hold dinner parties.
C) It was frequently visited by heads of state.
D) It is furnished like one in a royal palace.
14. A) It is elaborately decorated.
B) It has survived some 2,000 years.
C) It is very big, with only six slim legs.
D) It is shaped like an ancient Spanish boat.
15. A) They are interesting to look at.
B) They have lost some of their legs.
C) They do not match the oval table at all.
D) They are uncomfortable to sit in for long.
Section C
Directions: In this section, you will hear three recordings of lectures or talks followed
by three or four questions. The recordings will be played only once. After you hear a
question, you must choose the best answer from the four choices marked A), B), C)
and D). Then mark the corresponding letter on Answer Sheet 1 with a single line
through the centre.
Questions 16 to 19 are based on the recording you have just heard.
16. A) They investigate the retirement homes in America.
B) They are on issues facing senior citizens in America.
C) They describe the great pleasures of the golden years.
D) They are filled with fond memories of his grandparents.
17. A) The loss of the ability to take care of himself.
B) The feeling of not being important any more.
C) Being unable to find a good retirement home.
D) Leaving the home he had lived in for 60 years.
18. A) The loss of identity and self-worth.
B) Fear of being replaced or discarded.
C) Freedom from pressure and worldly cares.
D) The possession of wealth and high respect.
19. A) The urgency of pension reform.

[[PDF_PAGE 175 / PRINTED_PAGE 170]]
B) Medical care for senior citizens.
C) Finding meaningful roles for the elderly in society.
D) The development of public facilities for senior citizens.
Questions 20 to 22 are based on the recording you have just heard.
20. A) It seriously impacts their physical and mental development.
B) It has become a problem affecting global economic growth.
C) It is a common problem found in underdeveloped countries.
D) It is an issue often overlooked by parents in many countries.
21. A) They will live longer. C) They get along well with people.
B) They get better pay. D) They develop much higher IQs.
22. A) Appropriated funds to promote research of nutrient-rich foods.
B) Encouraged breastfeeding for the first six months of a child's life.
C) Recruited volunteers to teach rural people about health and nutrition.
D) Targeted hunger-relief programs at pregnant women and young children.
Questions 23 to 25 are based on the recording you have just heard.
23. A) The guaranteed quality of its goods.
B) The huge volume of its annual sales.
C) The service it provides for its customers.
D) The high value-to-weight ratio of its goods.
24. A) Those having a taste or smell component.
B) Products potentially embarrassing to buy.
C) Those that require very careful handling.
D) Services involving a personal element.
25. A) Those who live in the virtual world.
B) Those who have to work long hours.
C) Those who are used to online transactions.
D) Those who don't mind paying a little more.
Part III Reading Comprehension (40 minutes)
Section A
Directions: In this section, there is a passage with ten blanks. You are required to select

[[PDF_PAGE 176 / PRINTED_PAGE 171]]
one word for each blank from a list of choices given in a word bank following the
passage. Read the passage through carefully before making your choices. Each choice in
the bank is identified by a letter. Please mark the corresponding letter for each item on
Answer Sheet 2 with a single line through the centre. You may not use any of the words
in the bank more than once.
Travel websites have been around since the 1990s, when Expedia, Travelocity, and
other holiday booking sites were launched, allowing travelers to compare flight and hotel
prices with the click of a mouse. With information no longer 26 by travel agents or
hidden in business networks, the travel industry was revolutionized, as greater transparency
helped 27 prices.
Today, the industry is going through a new revolution — this time transforming service
quality. Online rating platforms — 28 in hotels, restaurants, apartments, and taxis —
allow travelers to exchange reviews and experiences for all to see.
Hospitality businesses are now ranked, analyzed, and compared not by industry
29, but by the very people for whom the service is intended — the customer. This has
30 a new relationship between buyer and seller. Customers have always voted with their
feet; they can now explain their decision to anyone who is interested. As a result, businesses
are much more 31, often in very specific ways, which creates powerful 32 to
improve service.
Although some readers might not care for gossipy reports of unfriendly bellboys (行李
员) in Berlin or malfunctioning hotel hairdryers in Houston, the true power of online
reviews lies not just in the individual stories, but in the websites' 33 to aggregate a
large volume of ratings.
The impact cannot be 34. Businesses that attract top ratings can enjoy rapid
growth, as new customers are attracted by good reviews and 35 provide yet more
positive feedback. So great is the influence of online ratings that many companies now hire
digital reputation managers to ensure a favorable online identity.
A) accountable I) persisting
B) capacity J) pessimistic
C) controlled K) professionals
D) entail L) slash
E) forged M) specializing
F) incentives N) spectators
G) occasionally O) subsequently
H) overstated

[[PDF_PAGE 177 / PRINTED_PAGE 172]]
Section B
Directions: In this section, you are going to read a passage with ten statements attached
to it. Each statement contains information given in one of the paragraphs. Identify the
paragraph from which the information is derived. You may choose a paragraph more
than once. Each paragraph is marked with a letter. Answer the questions by marking
the corresponding letter on Answer Sheet 2.
Plastic Surgery
A better credit card is the solution to ever larger hack attacks
A) A thin magnetic stripe (magstripe) is all that stands between your credit-card
information and the bad guys. And they've been working hard to break in. That's why
2014 is shaping up as a major showdown: banks, law enforcement and technology
companies are all trying to stop a network of hackers who are succeeding in stealing
account numbers, names, email addresses and other crucial data used in identity theft.
More than 100 million accounts at Target, Neiman Marcus and Michaels stores were
affected in some way during the most recent attacks, starting last November.
B) Swipe is the operative word: cards are increasingly vulnerable to attacks when you
make purchases in a store. In several recent incidents, hackers have been able to obtain
massive information of credit-, debit- (借记) or prepaid-card numbers using malware, i.
e. malicious software, inserted secretly into the retailers' point-of-sale system—the
checkout registers. Hackers then sold the data to a second group of criminals operating in
shadowy corners of the web. Not long after, the stolen data was showing up on fake cards
and being used for online purchases.
C) The solution could cost as little as $ 2 extra for every piece of plastic issued. The fix is
a security technology used heavily outside the U.S. While American credit cards use the
40-year-old magstripe technology to process transactions, much of the rest of the world
uses smarter cards with a technology called EMV (short for Europay, MasterCard, Visa)
that employs a chip embedded in the card plus a customer PIN (personal identification
number) to authenticate (验证) every transaction on the spot. If a purchaser fails to
punch in the correct PIN at the checkout, the transaction gets rejected. (Online
purchases can be made by setting up a separate transaction code.)
D) Why haven't big banks adopted the more secure technology? When it comes to mailing
out new credit cards, it's all about relative costs, says David Robertson, who runs the
Nilson Report, an industry newsletter: “The cost of the card, putting the sticker on it,
coding the account number and expiration date, embossing (凸 印) it, the small
envelope—all put together, you're in the dollar range. ”A chip-and-PIN card currently
costs closer to $ 3, says Robertson, because of the price of chips. (Once large issuers
convert together, the chip costs should drop.)

[[PDF_PAGE 178 / PRINTED_PAGE 173]]
E) Multiply $ 3 by the more than 5 billion magstripe credit and prepaid cards in circulation
in the U.S. Then consider that there's an estimated $ 12.4 billion in card fraud on a global
basis, says Robertson. With 44% of that in the U.S., American credit-card fraud amounts
to about $ 5.5 billion annually. Card issuers have so far calculated that absorbing the
liability for even big hacks like the Target one is still cheaper than replacing all that
plastic.
F) That leaves American retailers pretty much alone the world over in relying on
magstripe technology to charge purchases—and leaves consumers vulnerable. Each
magstripe has three tracks of information, explains payments security expert Jeremy
Gumbley, the chief technology officer of CreditCall, an electronic payments company.
The first and third are used by the bank or card issuer. Your vital account information
lives on the second track, which hackers try to capture. “Malware is scanning through
the memory in real time and looking for data, ”he says. “It creates a text file that gets
stolen. ”
G) Chip-and-PIN cards, by contrast, make fake cards or skimming impossible because the
information that gets scanned is encrypted (加密). The historical reason the U.S. has
stuck with magstripe, ironically enough, is once superior technology. Our cheap, ultra-
reliable wired networks made credit-card authentication over the phone frictionless. In
France, card companies created EMV in part because the telephone monopoly was so
maddeningly inefficient and expensive. The EMV solution allowed transactions to be
verified locally and securely.
H) Some big banks, like Wells Fargo, are now offering to convert your magstripe card to a
chip-and-PIN model. (It's actually a hybrid that will still have a magstripe, since most U.
S. merchants don't have EMV terminals.) Should you take them up on it? If you travel
internationally, the answer is yes.
I) Keep in mind, too, that credit cards typically have better liability protection than debit
cards. If someone uses your credit card fraudulently, it's the issuer or merchant, not
you, that takes the hit. Debit cards have different liability limits depending on the bank
and the events surrounding any fraud. “If it's available, the logical thing is to get a chip-
and-PIN card from your bank, ”says Eric Adamowsky, a co-founder of CreditCardInsider.
com. “I would use credit cards over debit cards because of liability issues. ”Cash still
works pretty well too.
J) Retailers and banks stand to benefit from the lower fraud levels of chip-and-PIN cards
but have been reluctant for years to invest in the new infrastructure needed for the
technology, especially if consumers don't have access to it. It's a chicken-and-egg
problem: no one wants to spend the money on upgraded point-of-sale systems that can
read the chip cards if shoppers aren't carrying them—yet there's little point in
consumers' carrying the fancy plastic if stores aren't equipped to use them. (An earlier
effort by Target to move to chip and PIN never gained progress.) According to Gumbley,

[[PDF_PAGE 179 / PRINTED_PAGE 174]]
there's a “you-first mentality. The logjam (僵局) has to be broken. ”
K) JPMorgan Chase CEO Jamie Dimon recently expressed his willingness to do so, noting
that banks and merchants have spent the past decade suing each other over interchange
fees—the percentage of the transaction price they keep—rather than deal with the
growing hacking problem. Chase offers a chip-enabled card under its own brand and
several others for travel-related companies such as British Airways and Ritz-Carlton.
L) The Target and Neiman hacks have also changed the cost calculation: although retailers
have been reluctant to spend the $ 6.75 billion that Capgemini consultants estimate it will
take to convert all their registers to be chip-and-PIN-compatible, the potential liability
they now face is dramatically greater. Target has been hit with class actions from hacked
consumers. “It's the ultimate nightmare, ”a retail executive from a well-known chain
admitted to TIME.
M) The card-payment companies MasterCard and Visa are pushing hard for change. The
two firms have warned all parties in the transaction chain—merchant, network, bank—
that if they don't become EMV-compliant by October 2015, the party that is least
compliant will bear the fraud risk.
N) In the meantime, app-equipped smartphones and digital wallets—all of which can use
EMV technology—are beginning to make inroads (侵袭) on cards and cash. PayPal, for
instance, is testing an app that lets you use your mobile phone to pay on the fly at local
merchants—without surrendering any card information to them. And further down the
road is biometric authentication, which could be encrypted with, say, a fingerprint.
O) Credit and debit cards, though, are going to be with us for the foreseeable future, and
so are hackers, if we stick with magstripe technology. “It seems crazy to me, ”says
Gumbley, who is English, “that a cutting-edge-technology country is depending on a 40-
year-old technology. ”That's why it may be up to consumers to move the needle on chip
and PIN. Says Robertson: “When you get the consumer into a position of worry and
inconvenience, that's where the rubber hits the road. ”
36. It is best to use an EMV card for international travel.
37. Personal information on credit and debit cards is increasingly vulnerable to hacking.
38. The French card companies adopted EMV technology partly because of inefficient
telephone service.
39. While many countries use the smarter EMV cards, the U.S. still clings to its old
magstripe technology.
40. Attempts are being made to prevent hackers from carrying out identity theft.

[[PDF_PAGE 180 / PRINTED_PAGE 175]]
41. Credit cards are much safer to use than debit cards.
42. Big banks have been reluctant to switch to more secure technology because of the higher
costs involved.
43. The potential liability for retailers using magstripe is far more costly than upgrading
their registers.
44. The use of magstripe cards by American retailers leaves consumers exposed to the risks
of losing account information.
45. Consumers will be a driving force behind the conversion from magstripe to EMV
technology.
Section C
Directions: There are 2 passages in this section. Each passage is followed by some
questions or unfinished statements. For each of them there are four choices marked A),
B), C) and D). You should decide on the best choice and mark the corresponding letter
on Answer Sheet 2 with a single line through the centre.
Passage One
I'll admit I've never quite understood the obsession surrounding genetically modified
(GM) crops. To environmentalist opponents, GM foods are simply evil, an understudied,
possibly harmful tool used by big agricultural businesses to control global seed markets and
crush local farmers. They argue that GM foods have never delivered on their supposed
promise, that money spent on GM crops would be better channeled to organic farming and
that consumers should be protected with warning labels on any products that contain
genetically modified ingredients. To supporters, GM crops are a key part of the effort to
sustainably provide food to meet a growing global population. But more than that, supporters
see the GM opposition of many environmentalists as fundamentally anti-science, no different
than those who question the basics of man-made climate change.
For both sides, GM foods seem to act as a symbol: you're pro-agricultural business or
anti-science. But science is exactly what we need more of when it comes to GM foods, which
is why I was happy to see Nature devote a special series of articles to the GM food
controversy. The conclusion: while GM crops haven't yet realized their initial promise and
have been dominated by agricultural businesses, there is reason to continue to use and
develop them to help meet the enormous challenge of sustainably feeding a growing planet.
That doesn't mean GM crops are perfect, or a one-size-fits-all solution to global

[[PDF_PAGE 181 / PRINTED_PAGE 176]]
agriculture problems. But anything that can increase farming efficiency—the amount of
crops we can produce per acre of land—will be extremely useful. GM crops can and almost
certainly will be part of that suite of tools, but so will traditional plant breeding, improved
soil and crop management—and perhaps most important of all, better storage and transport
infrastructure, especially in the developing world. (It doesn't do much good for farmers in
places like sub-Saharan Africa to produce more food if they can't get it to hungry
consumers.) I'd like to see more non-industry research done on GM crops—not just because
we'd worry less about bias, but also because seed companies like Monsanto and Pioneer
shouldn't be the only entities working to harness genetic modification. I'd like to see GM
research on less commercial crops, like corn. I don't think it's vital to label GM ingredients
in food, but I also wouldn't be against it—and industry would be smart to go along with
labeling, just as a way of removing fears about the technology.
Most of all, though, I wish a tenth of the energy that's spent endlessly debating GM
crops was focused on those more pressing challenges for global agriculture. There are much
bigger battles to fight.
46. How do environmentalist opponents view GM foods according to the passage?
A) They will eventually ruin agriculture and the environment.
B) They are used by big businesses to monopolize agriculture.
C) They have proved potentially harmful to consumers' health.
D) They pose a tremendous threat to current farming practice.
47. What does the author say is vital to solving the controversy between the two sides of the
debate?
A) Breaking the GM food monopoly.
B) More friendly exchange of ideas.
C) Regulating GM food production.
D) More scientific research on GM crops.
48. What is the main point of the Nature articles?
A) Feeding the growing population makes it imperative to develop GM crops.
B) Popularizing GM technology will help it to live up to its initial promises.
C) Measures should be taken to ensure the safety of GM foods.
D) Both supporters and opponents should make compromises.
49. What is the author's view on the solution to agricultural problems?
A) It has to depend more and more on GM technology.
B) It is vital to the sustainable development of human society.
C) GM crops should be allowed until better alternatives are found.

[[PDF_PAGE 182 / PRINTED_PAGE 177]]
D) Whatever is useful to boost farming efficiency should be encouraged.
50. What does the author think of the ongoing debate around GM crops?
A) It arises out of ignorance of and prejudice against new science.
B) It distracts the public attention from other key issues of the world.
C) Efforts spent on it should be turned to more urgent issues of agriculture.
D) Neither side is likely to give in until more convincing evidence is found.
Passage Two
When the right person is holding the right job at the right moment, that person's
influence is greatly expanded. That is the position in which Janet Yellen, who is expected to
be confirmed as the next chair of the Federal Reserve Bank (Fed) in January, now finds
herself. If you believe, as many do, that unemployment is the major economic and social
concern of our day, then it is no stretch to think Yellen is the most powerful person in the
world right now.
Throughout the 2008 financial crisis and the recession and recovery that followed,
central banks have taken on the role of stimulators of last resort, holding up the global
economy with vast amounts of money in the form of asset buying. Yellen, previously a Fed
vice chair, was one of the principal architects of the Fed's $ 3.8 trillion money dump. A star
economist known for her groundbreaking work on labor markets, Yellen was a kind of
prophetess early on in the crisis for her warnings about the subprime (次 级 债 的)
meltdown. Now it will be her job to get the Fed and the markets out of the biggest and most
unconventional monetary program in history without derailing the fragile recovery.
The good news is that Yellen, 67, is particularly well suited to meet these challenges.
She has a keen understanding of financial markets, an appreciation for their imperfections
and a strong belief that human suffering is more related to unemployment than anything else.
Some experts worry that Yellen will be inclined to chase unemployment to the neglect of
inflation. But with wages still relatively flat and the economy increasingly divided between
the well-off and the long-term unemployed, more people worry about the opposite,
deflation (通货紧缩) that would aggravate the economy's problems.
Either way, the incoming Fed chief will have to walk a fine line in slowly ending the
stimulus. It must be steady enough to deflate bubbles (去泡沫) and bring markets back
down to earth but not so quick that it creates another credit crisis.
Unlike many past Fed leaders, Yellen is not one to buy into the finance industry's
argument that it should be left alone to regulate itself. She knows all along the Fed has been
too slack on regulation of finance.
Yellen is likely to address the issue right after she pushes unemployment below 6%,
stabilizes markets and makes sure that the recovery is more inclusive and robust. As
Princeton Professor Alan Blinder says, “She's smart as a whip, deeply logical, willing to

[[PDF_PAGE 183 / PRINTED_PAGE 178]]
argue but also a good listener. She can persuade without creating hostility. ”All those traits
will be useful as the global economy's new power player takes on its most annoying
problems.
51. What do many people think is the biggest problem facing Janet Yellen?
A) Lack of money. C) Unemployment.
B) Subprime crisis. D) Social instability.
52. What did Yellen help the Fed do to tackle the 2008 financial crisis?
A) Take effective measures to curb inflation.
B) Deflate the bubbles in the American economy.
C) Formulate policies to help financial institutions.
D) Pour money into the market through asset buying.
53. What is a greater concern of the general public?
A) Recession. C) Inequality.
B) Deflation. D) Income.
54. What is Yellen likely to do in her position as the Fed chief?
A) Reform the credit system. C) Tighten financial regulation.
B) Restore public confidence. D) Develop a new monetary program.
55. How does Alan Blinder portray Yellen?
A) She possesses strong persuasive power.
B) She has confidence in what she is doing.
C) She is one of the world's greatest economists.
D) She is the most powerful Fed chief in history.
Part IV Translation (30 minutes)
Directions: For this part, you are allowed 30 minutes to translate a passage from
Chinese into English. You should write your answer on Answer Sheet 2.
中国传统的待客之道要求饭菜丰富多样,让客人吃不完. 中国宴席上典型的菜单包括
开席的一套凉菜及其后的热菜,例如肉类、鸡鸭、蔬菜等. 大多数宴席上,全鱼被认为是必不
可少的,除非已经上过各式海鲜. 如今,中国人喜欢把西方特色菜与传统中式菜肴融于一
席,因此牛排上桌也不少见. 沙拉也已流行起来,尽管传统上中国人一般不吃任何未经烹饪
的菜肴. 宴席通常至少有一道汤,可以最先或最后上桌. 甜点和水果通常标志宴席的结束.

[[PDF_PAGE 184 / PRINTED_PAGE 179]]
【听力文字稿】
Section A
Directions: In this section, you will hear two long conversations. At the end of each
conversation, you will hear four questions. Both the conversation and the questions
will be spoken only once. After you hear a question, you must choose the best answer
from the four choices marked A), B), C) and D). Then mark the corresponding letter
on Answer Sheet 1 with a single line through the centre.
Conversation One
W: Hello.
M: Hello, is that the reference library?
W: Yes. Can I help you?
M: I hope so. I rang earlier and asked for some information about Denys Hawtin, the
scientist. You asked me to ring back.
W: Oh, yes. I have found something.
M: Good. I've got a pencil and paper. Perhaps you could read out what it says.
W: Certainly. Hawtin, Denys. Born: Darlington 1836; died New York 1920.
M: Yes. Got that.
W: Inventor and physicist. The son of a farm worker, he was admitted to the University of
London at the age of fifteen.
M: Yes.
W: He graduated at seventeen with a first class degree in Physics and Mathematics. All
right?
M: Yes, all right.
W: He made his first notable achievement at the age of eighteen. It was a method of
refrigeration which arose from his work in low temperature physics. He became
professor of Mathematics at the University of Manchester at twenty-four, where he
remained for twelve years. During that time he married one of his students, Natasha
Willoughby.
M: Yes. Go on.
W: Later, working together in London, they laid the foundation of modern Physics by
showing that normal laws of cause and effect do not apply at the level of subatomic
particles. For this he and his wife received the Nobel Prize for Physics in 1910, and did
so again in 1912 for their work on very high frequency radio waves. In his lifetime
Hawtin patented 244 inventions. Do you want any more?
M: Yes. When did he go to America?
W: Let me see. In 1920 he went to teach in New York, and died there suddenly after only
three weeks. Still, he was a good age.

[[PDF_PAGE 185 / PRINTED_PAGE 180]]
M: Yes. I suppose so. Well, thanks.
Questions 1 to 4 are based on the conversation you have just heard.
1. What do we learn about Denys Hawtin when he was 15?
2. What did Denys Hawtin do at the age of 24?
3. For what were Denys Hawtin and his wife awarded the Nobel Prize a second time?
4. Why did Denys Hawtin go to New York?
Conversation Two
W: This is Lisa Meyer in the WBZ newsroom, talking with Mike Bassichis, who is the
director of the Gifford School, about the cleanup from last week's fire and what the
possible cause of that blaze may have been.
M: We're getting ready for our entire staff to return early from vacation tomorrow
whereupon we are going to move into temporary classrooms. And the other buildings
that did not burn are being de-smoked. As to the cause of the fire, all we know is that we
were having trouble with the pilot lights since we bought the stove in July and it had
been serviced three times. Well, as a matter of fact, we think it was a malfunctioning
stove that may have caused the fire. Nothing definite yet has been determined.
W: Have you heard from other schools or other institutional users of this stove that have had
the same problem?
M: No. I wouldn't know anything more about the stove itself. All I know is that this fire
went up so quickly that there's been a suspicion about why it went up so quickly. And it
may be that there was a gas blast. But, again, this has not been determined officially by
anybody.
W: I got you. When do kids come back to school?
M: Next Monday, and we will be ready for them. Monday January 4. We're just extremely
thrilled that no one was hurt and that's because of the fire fighters that were here, nine
of them. They're wonderful.
W: And I'm sure you send your thanks out to them, uh?
M: Well, we're sending out thanks to them in a letter or in any other way we can. I heard a
story today where one of our kids actually baked some cookies and is taking it to the fire
department, to give it to them.
Questions 5 to 8 are based on the conversation you have just heard.
5. What were the speakers talking about?
6. What were the school staff doing at the time of the accident?
7. What was supposed to be the cause of the accident?
8. What did one of the kids do to show gratitude?

[[PDF_PAGE 186 / PRINTED_PAGE 181]]
Section B
Directions: In this section, you will hear two passages. At the end of each passage, you
will hear three or four questions. Both the passage and the questions will be spoken only
once. After you hear a question, you must choose the best answer from the four choices
marked A), B), C) and D). Then mark the corresponding letter on Answer Sheet 1
with a single line through the centre.
Passage One
In today's personality stakes, nothing is more highly valued than a sense of humor. We
seek it out in others and are proud to claim it in ourselves, perhaps even more than good
looks or intelligence. If someone has a great sense of humor, we reason, it means that they
are happy, socially confident and have a healthy perspective on life.
This attitude would have surprised the ancient Greeks, who believed humor to be
essentially aggressive. And in fact, our admiration for the comically gifted is relatively new,
and not very well-founded, says Rod Martin, a psychologist at the University of Western
Ontario. Being funny isn't necessarily an indicator of good social skills and well-being, his
research has shown. It may just as likely be a sign of personality flaws.
He has found that humor is a double-edged sword. It can forge better relationships and
help you cope with life, or it can be corrosive, eating away at self-esteem and irritating
others. “It's a form of communication, like speech, and we all use it differently, ”says
Martin. We use bonding humor to enhance our social connections, but we also may employ it
as a way of excluding or rejecting an outsider.
Though humor is essentially social, how you use it says a lot about your sense of self.
Those who use self-defeating humor, making fun of themselves for the enjoyment of others,
tend to maintain that hostility toward themselves even when alone. Similarly, those who are
able to view the world with amused tolerance are often equally forgiving of their own
shortcomings.
Questions 9 to 11 are based on the passage you have just heard.
9. How do people today view humor according to the speaker?
10. What did the ancient Greeks think of humor?
11. What has psychologist Rod Martin found about humor?
Passage Two
And now, if you'll walk this way, ladies and gentlemen, the next room we're going to
see is the room in which the family used to hold their formal dinner parties and even
occasionally entertain heads of state and royalty. However, they managed to keep this room
friendly and intimate and I think you'll agree it has a very informal atmosphere, quite unlike
some grand houses you visit. The curtains were never drawn, even at night, so guests got a

[[PDF_PAGE 187 / PRINTED_PAGE 182]]
view of the lake and fountains outside, which were lit up at night. A very attractive sight.
As you can see, ladies and gentlemen, the guests were seated very informally around
this oval table, which would add to the relaxed atmosphere. The table dates from the
eighteenth century and is made of Spanish oak. It's rather remarkable for the fact that
although it is extremely big, it's supported by just six rather slim legs. However, it seems to
have survived like that for two hundred years, so it's probably going to last a bit longer. The
chairs which go with the table are not a complete set—there were originally six of them.
They are interesting for the fact that they are very plain and undecorated for the time, with
only one plain central panel at the back and no arm-rests. I myself find them rather
uncomfortable to sit in for very long, but people were used to more discomfort in the past.
And now, ladies and gentlemen, if you'd like to follow me into the Great Hall...
Questions 12 to 15 are based on the passage you have just heard.
12. What do we learn about the speaker?
13. What does the speaker say about the room they are visiting?
14. What is said about the oval table in the room?
15. What does the speaker say about the chairs?
Section C
Directions: In this section, you will hear three recordings of lectures or talks followed
by three or four questions. The recordings will be played only once. After you hear a
question, you must choose the best answer from the four choices marked A), B), C)
and D). Then mark the corresponding letter on Answer Sheet 1 with a single line
through the centre.
Recording One
Moderator:
Hello Ladies and Gentleman, it gives me great pleasure to introduce our keynote
speaker for today's session, Dr. Howard Miller. Dr. Miller, Professor of Sociology at
Washington University, has written numerous articles and books on the issues facing older
Americans in our graying society for the past 15 years. Dr. Miller:
Dr. Miller:
Thank you for that introduction. Today, I'd like to preface my remarks with a story
from my own life which I feel highlights the common concerns that bring us here together.
Several years ago when my grandparents were well into their eighties, they were faced with
the reality of no longer being able to adequately care for themselves. My grandfather spoke
of his greatest fear, that of leaving the only home they had known for the past 60 years.
Fighting back the tears, he spoke proudly of the fact that he had built their home from the

[[PDF_PAGE 188 / PRINTED_PAGE 183]]
ground up, and that he had pounded every nail and laid every brick in the process. The
prospect of having to sell their home and give up their independence, and move into a
retirement home was an extremely painful experience for them. It was, in my grandfather's
own words, like having a limb cut off. He exclaimed in a forceful manner that he felt he
wasn't important anymore.
For them and some older Americans, their so-called “golden years”are at times not so
pleasant, for this period can mean the decline of not only one's health but the loss of identity
and self-worth. In many societies, this self-identity is closely related with our social status,
occupation, material possessions, or independence. Furthermore, we often live in societies
that value what is “new”or in fashion, and our own usage of words in the English language
is often a sign of bad news for older Americans. I mean how would your family react if you
came home tonight exclaiming, “Hey, come to the living room and see the OLD black and
white TV I brought! ”Unfortunately, the word “old”calls to mind images of the need to
replace or discard.
Now, many of the lectures given at this conference have focused on the issues of
pension reform, medical care, and the development of public facilities for senior citizens.
And while these are vital issues that must be addressed, I'd like to focus my comments on an
important issue that will affect the overall success of the other programs mentioned. This has
to do with changing our perspectives on what it means to be a part of this group, and finding
meaningful roles the elderly can play and should play in our societies.
First of all, I'd like to talk about...
Questions 16 to 19 are based on the recording you have just heard.
16. What does the introduction say about Dr. Howard Miller's articles and books?
17. What is the greatest fear of Dr. Miller's grandfather?
18. What does Dr. Miller say the “golden years”can often mean?
19. What is the focus of Dr. Miller's speech?
Recording Two
The 2010 Global Hunger Index report was released today by the International Food
Policy Research Institute (IFPRI). It notes that, in recent years, experts have come to the
conclusion that undernourishment between conception and a child's second birthday can have
serious and long-lasting impacts.
Undernourishment during this approximately 1,000-day window can seriously check the
growth and development of children and render them more likely to get sick and die than
well-fed children. Preventing hunger allows children to develop both physically and mentally.
Says IFPRI's Marie Ruel, “They will be more likely to perform well in school. They
will stay in school longer. And then in adulthood, IFPRI has actually demonstrated that
children who were better nourished have higher wages, by a pretty large margin, by 46

[[PDF_PAGE 189 / PRINTED_PAGE 184]]
percent. ”
Ruel says that means the productivity of a nation's future generations depends in a large
part on the first 1,000 days of life.
“This is why we're all on board in focusing on those thousand days to improve nutrition.
After that, the damage is done and is highly irreversible. ”
The data on nutrition and childhood development has been slowly coming together for
decades. But Ruel says scientific consensus alone will not solve the problem.
“It's not enough that nutritionists know you have to intervene then, if we don't have
the politicians on board, and also the... people that implement programs in the field. ”
Ruel says there are encouraging signs that politicians and implementers are beginning to
get on board. Many major donors and the United Nations are targeting hunger-relief
programs at pregnant women and young children. They focus on improving diets or providing
micro-food supplements. They improve access to pre-birth care and encourage exclusive
breastfeeding for the first six months of a child's life.
Ruel says in the 1980s Thailand was able to reduce child undernourishment by recruiting
a large number of volunteers to travel the countryside teaching about health and nutrition.
“They really did very active promotion of diversity in the diet and good eating habits. So
they were providing more food to people, but also educating people on how to use them, and
also educating people on how to feed their young children. ”
Ruel says countries may take different approaches to reducing child undernutrition. But
she says nations will not make progress fighting hunger and poverty until they begin to focus
on those critical first thousand days.
Questions 20 to 22 are based on the recording you have just heard.
20. What is the experts' conclusion regarding children's undernourishment in their earliest
days of life?
21. What does IFPRI's Marie Ruel say about well-fed children in their adult life?
22. What did Thailand do to reduce child undernourishment in the 1980s?
Recording Three
I'd like to look at a vital aspect of e-commerce, and that is the nature of the product or
service. There are certain products and services that are very suitable for selling online, and
others that simply don't work.
Suitable products generally have a high value-to-weight ratio. Items such as CDs and
DVDs are obvious examples. Books, although heavier and so more expensive to post, still
have a high enough value-to-weight ratio, as the success of Amazon, which started off
selling only books, shows. Laptop computers are another good product for selling online.
Digital products, such as software, films and music, can be sold in a purely virtual
environment. The goods are paid for by online transactions, and then downloaded onto the

[[PDF_PAGE 190 / PRINTED_PAGE 185]]
buyer's computer. There are no postage or delivery costs, so prices can be kept low.
Many successful virtual companies provide digital services, such as financial
transactions, in the case of Paypal, or means of communication, as Skype does. The key to
success here is providing an easy-to-use, reliable service. Do this and you can easily become
the market leader, as Skype has proved.
Products which are potentially embarrassing to buy also do well in the virtual
environment. Some of the most profitable e-commerce companies are those selling sex-
related products or services. For a similar reason, online gambling is highly popular.
Products which are usually considered unsuitable for selling online include those that
have a taste or smell component. Food, especially fresh food, falls into this category, along
with perfume. Clothes and other items that need to be tried on such as diamond rings and
gold necklaces are generally not suited to virtual retailing, and, of course, items with a low
value-to-weight ratio.
There are exceptions, though. Online grocery shopping has really taken off, with most
major supermarkets offering the service. The inconvenience of not being able to see the food
you are buying is outweighed by the time saved and convenience of having the goods
delivered. Typical users of online supermarkets include the elderly, people who work long
hours and those without their own transport.
Questions 23 to 25 are based on the recording you have just heard.
23. What is important to the success of an online store?
24. What products are unsuitable for selling online?
25. Who are more likely to buy groceries online?
【参考答案】
Part II Listening Comprehension
Section A
1. C 2. B 3. C 4. D 5. D
6. B 7. A 8. C
Section B
9. D 10. B 11. A 12. A 13. B
14. C 15. D
Section C
16. B 17. D 18. A 19. C 20. A
21. B 22. C 23. D 24. A 25. B

[[PDF_PAGE 191 / PRINTED_PAGE 186]]
Part III Reading Comprehension
Section A
26. C 27. L 28. M 29. K 30. E
31. A 32. F 33. B 34. H 35. O
Section B
36. H 37. B 38. G 39. C 40. A
41. I 42. D 43. L 44. F 45. O
Section C
46. B 47. D 48. A 49. D 50. C
51. C 52. D 53. B 54. C 55. A
Part IV Translation
Traditional Chinese hospitality requires that guests be offered a rich variety of dishes
which are more than they could possibly finish. Typical menus in a Chinese banquet include a
set of cold dishes to begin with, followed by hot dishes, such as meats, chicken, duck, and
vegetables. A whole fish is considered essential for most banquets unless various seafoods
have already been served. Nowadays the Chinese like to mix Western specialties with
traditional Chinese dishes, so it's not unusual to see beefsteaks served. Salads have also
come into fashion even though traditionally Chinese tend to refuse anything uncooked. A
banquet usually includes at least one soup, which is likely to be served as the first or the last
course. Desserts and fruits generally signal the end of a banquet.

[[PDF_PAGE 192 / PRINTED_PAGE 187]]
4.全国大学英语六级考试 (口试)样卷
Topic Area: Social Issues
Topic: Stress
Hello, welcome to the CET Spoken English Test—Band Six. Now let's start by introducing
yourselves. Candidate A, would you please go first? (倒计时 20 秒)
Thank you. Candidate B, now it's your turn. (倒计时 20 秒)
Thank you. OK, now that we know each other, let's move on. First, I'd like to ask you a
question.
Q: Do you think college life is challenging? Why do you say so?
(两位考生同步回答问题,倒计时 30 秒)
Now let's move on to something more specific. The topic for our discussion today is “Stress”.
Each of you will see a card with instructions for your presentation. You'll have one minute to
prepare, and each of you will have one and a half minutes to give your presentation. Now
look at your card. (考生屏幕上只显示各人自己的卡片,倒计时 60 秒)
Now Candidate A, please begin. (倒计时 1 分 30 秒)
Candidate B, now it's your turn. (倒计时 1 分 30 秒)
两位考生依次根据图片或卡片作陈述
Right. Now that we've talked briefly about stress, I'd like you to develop this topic further
and have a discussion for about three minutes. During the discussion you may argue and ask
each other questions. Our discussion is about the best way to manage stress. (屏幕上显示 The
best way to manage stress)

[[PDF_PAGE 193 / PRINTED_PAGE 188]]
Remember, this is a pair activity and you need to interact with each other. So don't keep
talking without giving the other a chance. Now let's begin. (倒计时 3 分)
All right, that's the end of the discussion.
Now I'd like to ask you just one last question on the topic of “Stress”.
Q: When are you most likely to experience stress? Please say something about it.
(两位考生同步回答问题,倒计时 45 秒)
OK, that's the end of the test. Thank you.

[[PDF_PAGE 194 / PRINTED_PAGE 189]]
5.全国大学英语四级考试答题卡

[[PDF_PAGE 195 / PRINTED_PAGE 190]]


[[PDF_PAGE 196 / PRINTED_PAGE 191]]


[[PDF_PAGE 197 / PRINTED_PAGE 192]]


[[PDF_PAGE 198 / PRINTED_PAGE 193]]
6.全国大学英语六级考试答题卡

[[PDF_PAGE 199 / PRINTED_PAGE 194]]


[[PDF_PAGE 200 / PRINTED_PAGE 195]]


[[PDF_PAGE 201 / PRINTED_PAGE 196]]


[[PDF_PAGE 202 / PRINTED_PAGE 197]]
7.全国大学英语四级考试作文评分样卷
Directions: For this part, you are allowed 30 minutes to write an essay based on the
picture below. You should start your essay with a brief description of the picture and
comment on the kid's understanding of going to school. You should write at least 120
words but no more than 180 words. Write your essay on Answer Sheet 1.
14 points
As is demonstrated in the picture, despite his mother's angry face, the kid is unwilling
to go to school, arguing that since he can get everything he wants to know through his
phone, there's no need going to school and acquiring them in class. It's not uncommon to
hear such argument among young students nowadays.
However, this kid's understanding of going to school can be potentially harmful for
following reasons. First, more than merely acquiring knowledge, going to school is also an
act to get involved in society. We'll learn how to build friendship and develop interpersonal
skills, which is valuable experience in our life that cannot be learnt from phones. Besides,
school also teaches us how to think, how to pursue knowledge actively, which can not be
replaced by cellphones because we can only gain knowledge passively from cellphones.
For reasons above, it's high time that young students realized the value of school. Put
down their phones and interact with others, and a bigger world is waiting for us to explore.
11 points
This picture describes a conversation between a child and his mother. The child thinks it

[[PDF_PAGE 203 / PRINTED_PAGE 198]]
is not necessary to attend school because almost all information can be obtained from cell
phone with Internet. That seems make sense, whereas, in my perspective, it is still
essential for us to go to school.
We live in an information age when books and articles are available to everyone on the
Internet. Knowledge becomes public. If we want to learn something such as mathematics,
we can easily find some related books online. However, knowledge online isn't your
knowledge. You will need to learn it and turn it to your own knowledge. Schools, or maybe
teachers, can conduct you how to learn well. Actually, they develop your study habits and
tell you some methods when dealing with new difficult problems. How to learn is absolutely
more important than what to learn. Although there are huge amounts of knowledge online,
we still need to know how to master it. That's why we go to school.
8 points
The carton reveals a young boy who takes a phone and show his doubting, and a man
with a dog is listening his question, “Why am I going to school if my phone already knows
everything? ”Nowaday, a great amount of students use electronics like mobile phone. It
seems we can acknowledge all information through internet, but something we ignored.
First of all, if we have already got a phone and don't need to go to school, so how about
improve our communication skills? There is no platform for students to know each other.
Secondly, how to create a team work? We only know ourselves, and don't know
sharing, don't know help others, don't know 1 + 1 more than 2.
Last but not least, we can learn not only knowledge, but also music, computer, and
language.
All reasons show why we should go to school. Although it is convenient for us to
acknowledge information through phone, but lost happiness of learning and exploring with
others which is the most important.
5 points
In our daily life, more and more morden method can start. Just like the picture said
“why am I going to school if my phone already knows everything? ”As we knowns, we can
start from our phones. But I think there is a misunderstanding said about this. The reasons
are above of.
Going to school, we can start all subjects, example, Chinese, Math, Music and so on.
When we not understand, we can ask for teachers. We can receive all kinds of knowledge
from the school. Going to school, we have communicate with teacher and classmate, these
can help us improving our communicate skills, which can help we when we go to sociate. If
you have this communicate relationship, we will have good job.

[[PDF_PAGE 204 / PRINTED_PAGE 199]]
In all, learning from the phone can not steady of learning from school. In our life, the
phone knowledge is limit. In our limited education condition, going to school will learn more
knowledge. It can take us all knowledge, communication skills, people's relationship.
2 points
Why I going to school if my phone already knows everything? But you phone can't
teacher you how leaning.
For some reason, in we are a child, we must going to school, to study, to leaning, to
player. But if this IT time, this Bigdate time, my phone can knows everything. He can
teacher you, can easy call everone, can giving you happying from something game.
Because, the school can give more. First, let you going to school, is in government
idea, in very long time is away in they. Two, you father and mother, he want to you going
to school, because, in him we are child, in him we be going to school. So, where you phone
can already knows everything. But this is just phone he can't chang we are school. For
something reason, school away is school, whever IT time, Bigdate time, school is nobody
can easy chang. Because, this is school, by learn, by funing, giving you friend the school.

[[PDF_PAGE 205 / PRINTED_PAGE 200]]
8.全国大学英语六级考试作文评分样卷
Directions: For this part, you are allowed 30 minutes to write an essay commenting on
the saying “If you cannot do great things, do small things in a great way. ”You can
cite examples to illustrate your point of view. You should write at least 150 words but
no more than 200 words. Write your essay on Answer Sheet 1.
14 points
We all remember a time when we spoke proudly about becoming the next Bill Gates, or
Stephen Hawking, and it's never wrong to dream big. As time passes by, we gradually
realize that most of us are bound to stay ordinary. Yet there's still a way of achieving
excellency. As the saying goes, “If you cannot do great things, do small things in a
great way. ”
A perfect life doesn't have to be so glorious or sparkling as grand plays performed in
theatres. The true value lies in our attitude towards tiny daily issues, of which the
repairman working in our community is an ideal example. Bicycle-repairing is certainly not
the brightest or best-paid profession to many, but this man puts his heart and soul into it and
views it as his way of serving for people in the community, which is why he earns high
reputation.
As a generation about to step into the fiercely competitive society, we are haunted by
the feeling of worry and helplessness. If we strive for accomplishing remarkable success and
becoming world-renowned, we'll probably feel frustrated and disappointed. Only by realizing
“Excellency derives from small matters”can we survive and thrive.
11 points
“If you cannot do great things, do small things in a great way”is the greatest saying
I've ever heard. I admire many people. Some of them are heroes who do great things, but
some of them are ordinary people. They do small things which seems simple and boring.
To illustrate it, I show an example first. My Chinese teacher, Miss Chen, is an ordinary
senior high school teacher. She teaches everyday. However, in my eyes, she's a great
teacher. She really loves her students and her courses are wonderful. She will spend her
spare time to prepare a good class. She's always willing to help students. As a result, she's a
very popular teacher in our school.
Miss Chen doesn't do great things, but she tries to make her job great. When you do
things wholeheartedly, you are great person. Obviously, not everyone has the chance to be a
hero, but when we do our small things in great way, we succeed.
This is an amazing quality. So we shouldn't complain that we can't do great things. Let's

[[PDF_PAGE 206 / PRINTED_PAGE 201]]
do small things in a great way to be our own hero.
8 points
A successful great man said: “a soldier who don't want to be a general is not a good
soldier”. We can find that most of men want to become great man, and do great things! But
an army has only one general, most of soldiers can only be a normal soldier. So should the
soldiers all go back home, just because they can't become a general? Of course not!
Everyone has his value in his position. An army can't win battle if has only a general but
no soldiers. If you are a soldier, just do your best, stay in your position and everyone will
respect you include the general. As my father, although he's working in the government as a
normal public servant not an officer, but he did his best in work. He solved lots of questions
for his department, and served for hundreds of people a week to help them, he feels that
he's successful because his leader and all the people he served said to him: “you are a great
man”.
So we just do our best in our work, do more for the others! We are all the great man!
5 points
As show in this saying, Recentally many people, especially young person, think it is
certainly do good to do great things, rather than small things. Moreover, they often think do
small things has no value and boring.
The saying above tries to criticize the phenomenon that most people want do great
things rather than small things. It's really a wrong views. After carefully consideration, I
have state that the saying is more biased. It given following reasons. Firstly, There not only
great things but also small things in every project. Besides, the small things can do very
excellent too, if you can make your minds to do it. Further, If you can't do a small things
well, neither great things.
From what discussed above, we conclude that question quite depends on choice. In my
own eyes, no matter what ability we have, how excellent we are. Because if you want walk
thousands miles, you have to do every step in you foot. Only if do small things well, do great
things in the same time.
2 points
Nowadays, everybody want do great things, such as student we would rather to elect
the hot of sauce rather than study the useful teknologe. But, as show in the eassy that it
saying “If you cannot do great things, do small things in a great way”.
There are some reasons we should do some small things. To begin with, nothing is

[[PDF_PAGE 207 / PRINTED_PAGE 202]]
distinguish by great things and small things. To sum up the small thing. It is also a great
thing. And the great thing is own to people's opinion. Then, if want to be success, the small
things will help to you. Further more, the most of all famous people is grown in small things.
Finally, the things must said to yourself. If you unable to do, you should give up quickly.
In short, it is time to do some things no matter how great things or small things. When
we growing up, we are get benefited from those small things. Every is important. Every
things is benefit to your future. Only by this way we can successful and more happy.

[[PDF_PAGE 208 / PRINTED_PAGE 203]]
9.全国大学英语四级考试翻译评分样卷
据报道,今年中国快递服务 (courier services)将递送大约 120 亿件包裹. 这将使中国有
可能超越美国成为世界上最大的快递市场. 大多数包裹里装着网上订购的物品. 中国给数
百万在线零售商以极具竞争力的价格销售商品的机会. 仅在 11 月 11 日,中国消费者就从
国内最大的购物平台购买了价值 90 亿美元的商品. 中国有不少这样的特殊购物日. 因此,
快递业在中国扩展就不足为奇了.
【参考译文】
It is reported that Chinese courier services will deliver about 12 billion parcels this year.
This will enable China to overtake the US and become the world's biggest delivery market.
The majority of courier packages contain items ordered online. China gives millions of online
retailers the opportunity to sell goods at highly competitive prices. On 11 November alone,
Chinese consumers bought $ 9 billion worth of products on the country's biggest shopping
platform. China has many special shopping holidays like this. So, it's no surprise the courier
industry is expanding in China.
14 points
It is reported that the courier services in China will deliver about 12 billion pieces of
package, which indicates that China may surpass the U.S. to become the largest market for
courier services. Most packages contain products ordered from the Internet. China has
provided millions of online retailers with opportunities to sell their products at an extremely
competitive price. On November 11 th alone, Chinese consumers have purchased products that
valued up to 9 billion dollars from the largest shopping platform in the country. Since there
are quite a few special shopping festivals in China, it is not particularly surprising that
courier services have expanded rapidly in China.
11 points
It is reported that Chinese courier services will send about 12 billion packages this year,
which may make China become the biggest courier market in the world in the place of
America. Most of the packages carry the items bought on the Internet. China gives millions
of retailers online the opportunities to sell products in extremely competitive prices. Only on
November 11 th, Chinese consumers bought products valued 9 billion dollars from the biggest
shopping platform in China. There are many special shopping days in China. Therefore, it is
not strange that courier services have been developing fast in China.

[[PDF_PAGE 209 / PRINTED_PAGE 204]]
8 points
It is reported that the courier services in China will deliver about 12 billion packages
this year which may show that China would beat the USA to be the biggest courier market in
the world. Most packages covers the products which are bought on-line, for China gives
millions of companies online opportunities to sell products in competitive prices. Just in
November 11 th, the cosumers in China bought more than 9 billion prices products from the
largest business floor. China has many other unique cosuming day like this, therefore, it's
not surprising the courier services expand in China.
5 points
According to the report, this year courier services in China will send about 12 billion
packets. It will make China over America to become the biggest courier market in the world.
Most of packets are the things which buy from the Internet. China gives the opportunities to
the millions of salesmen to use the competive price selling things. Just on Nov.11 th, Chinese
comasters bought 9 billion dollars things from the biggest shopping markets. China has many
special shopping days like this. So it is not surprise that the courier services can extend
quickly in China.
2 points
From the report, China courier services will delivey about 120 million packages in this
year. China will beyond America become most biggest courier all over the world. Most
packages are goods of online shop. China offer for billions of detial shops that price of
competitive sale the goods for a chance. On November 11st, the Chinese comsumer who
bought 90 million dollars goods on biggest China shop platform. China have many
extraordinary shopping day. Eventhough, couries services will expand that not extrordinary
in China.

[[PDF_PAGE 210 / PRINTED_PAGE 205]]
10.全国大学英语六级考试翻译评分样卷
中国传统的待客之道要求饭菜丰富多样,让客人吃不完. 中国宴席上典型的菜单包括
开席的一套凉菜及其后的热菜,例如肉类、鸡鸭、蔬菜等. 大多数宴席上,全鱼被认为是必不
可少的,除非已经上过各式海鲜. 如今,中国人喜欢把西方特色菜与传统中式菜肴融于一
席,因此牛排上桌也不少见. 沙拉也已流行起来,尽管传统上中国人一般不吃任何未经烹饪
的菜肴. 宴席通常至少有一道汤,可以最先或最后上桌. 甜点和水果通常标志宴席的结束.
【参考译文】
Traditional Chinese hospitality requires that guests be offered a rich variety of dishes
which are more than they could possibly finish. Typical menus in a Chinese banquet include a
set of cold dishes to begin with, followed by hot dishes, such as meats, chicken, duck, and
vegetables. A whole fish is considered essential for most banquets unless various seafoods
have already been served. Nowadays the Chinese like to mix Western specialties with
traditional Chinese dishes, so it's not unusual to see beefsteaks served. Salads have also
come into fashion even though traditionally Chinese tend to refuse anything uncooked. A
banquet usually includes at least one soup, which is likely to be served as the first or the last
course. Desserts and fruits generally signal the end of a banquet.
14 points
The traditional Chinese way of treating guests requires hosts to prepare abundant and
various dishes, and make the guests unable to finish them all. The typical menu for a
Chinese feast consists of a set of cold dishes, which are served at the beginning and some hot
dishes after that, such as meat, chicken, ducks and vegetables. In most feasts, a complete
fish is considered necessary unless various kinds of seafood have been served. Nowadays,
Chinese people like to mix western special dishes with traditional Chinese cuisine, so it is
not rare to find steak on the table. In addition, salad has gained its popularity constantly,
even though Chinese people are not likely to eat dishes that have not been cooked in
tradition. There is generally a soup in a feast, which can be served at the beginning or the
end of the meal. Besides, desserts and fruits often mark the end of a feast.
11 points
The traditional Chinese way to treat guests demands a variety of food which won't be
eaten up. A typical menu of Chinese dinner contains a series of cold dishes at the beginning
and cooked food later, such as meat, chicken, duck and vegetables. Fish is thought to be
necessary in most formal dinners unless different kinds of seafood has been served.

[[PDF_PAGE 211 / PRINTED_PAGE 206]]
Nowadays, Chinese people like to combine special food from Western countries with
traditional Chinese food. As a result, beef is not rare at Chinese dinner. Salad has been more
and more popular, although Chinese don't eat any uncooked food traditionally. There will be
at least one soup at dinner, which can be served at first or at last. Desserts and fruits are
usually a sign of the end of dinner.
8 points
The Chinese traditional way of treating guests requires that the food in a dinner should
be various and more than what guests could eat up. A typical list of a Chinese dinner
including a set of cold dishes at the beginning, followed by hot dishes such as meat, chicken,
vegetables and so on. In most dinners, it is thought that an entire fish is unlackable except
that all kinds of seafood have been provided. Nowadays, Chinese people prefer to combine
western typical food with traditional Chinese food in a dinner. So it's not rare to see steak
being provided. Salad is beginning to become popular as well, even though traditional
Chinese people don't eat anything uncooked. There should usually be a kind of soup at least,
which can be served at the beginning or at the end of a dinner. Deserts and fruits usually
mark the end of dinner.
5 points
The tradition of Chinese treatment to guests is that the food must be much enough to let
guests be unable to finish. The traditional food in China includes the beginning cool food and
hot food next, such as meat, chicken, vegetables and etc. In most parties, fish is considered
to be important, except that the sea food has been given. Nowadays, Chinese like to mix
Western food and traditional Chinese food together, thus the pearl can be seen frequently on
the table. Sala has also gained its popularity, even though traditionally, Chinese people don't
eat any food without being fired. There's at least one kind of soup on the table. It can be
taken into the table firstly or lastly. Desserts and fruits often mark the ending of the party.
2 points
In the way of Chinese traditional treat, the food should be many and too much to eat.
Classical Chinese treat includes some cold dishes in the beginning, and than some hot dishes,
like meat, vegetable and chiken. Often, the fish is must provided, expect there are many sea
foods, now, Chinese like mix some west dishes in a Chinese traditional treat. So, beef is a
often dish. Salad also start to be popular. Although Chinese don't eat any food not be cooked.
Usually, there is at least a soup, in the start or the last. Dessert or fruit usually symbles that
treat will be over.